and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and today i'm joined by returning guest
justin michael justin's co-founder over
at hype cycle which holds the monthly
gtm games go to cross-market training or
cross-training rather b2b professionals
he's known for co-writing the book tech
powered sales along with tony j hughes
justin welcome to the show sir how's it
going man well thanks for having me back
yeah i uh
appreciate this show and it's good to be
here um
i think we're going to talk about cold
calling today which is a great subject i
don't get that many calls on my cell
phone how about you
very rarely to be fair in fact someone
did a poll as people like to do on
linkedin and i think i ticked the box
this morning so i get under five cold
calls a month
so it shows you how many people reach
out to me cold probably similar with
linkedin voice linkedin video all those
kind of personalized ways of getting at
me very very rare a ton of cold email
but very few cold calls and that's
exactly
what we're gonna be chatting about so
we're gonna be talking going down and
dirty on is cold calling worth it for
2022 and i'm sure probably the audience
is quite split even watching on tv and
some people think hell yes others
probably think hell no um
first and foremost justin what are your
thoughts
well i'm actually the person that posted
that poll because um you know i put my
phone number in all the databases from
cognizam if you're watching in europe to
lucia to lead iq to zoom info to slintel
they're in all the databases it's a 917.
i'm not going to give it out because
i'll get them parted and i typically get
calls from gong and chorus and seamless
uh you know it's the conversational
intelligence and data providers that
contact me but there's over 2 000 sales
tech tools and 8 000 martech tools and
so you think there would be more calls
and so there's been this sort of you
know existential threat that
you know half the population in
the jobs are prospect-based they're
going to be millennials and they don't
take calls
and so actually what it represents is a
really remarkable opportunity for you to
get clean data direct dials or cell
phone dials you can have that data from
several platforms that say direct
checked
uh with virtual assistants and you can
get that data clean to about 98 so first
is if you're buying from one data
provider buy from two
if you're buying from two buy from three
and now if you have multiple data
providers go clean that data pre-call it
get human verified leads all that means
for the small business audience is
someone calls in advance and i call
right sam dunning and it says hi this is
sam dunning i get his answering machine
i know it's him
problem now is in the post pandemic
environment everyone's changing jobs and
20 to 30 percent of those leads their
phone numbers are gone
why would you do this you would do this
to humanize
the experience like if i leave a
voicemail
and i have a prospect in a cadence
outreach sales loft revenue.io formally
ring dna right and they're getting all
these emails from me but i take the time
to leave a voicemail that's slightly
tailored you're gonna remember me i
worked a little harder so i'm showing
you a little more effort and then i'm
not
a full automation
when i talk about phone automation
there's a hundred dialers but there's a
few solutions on the market that dial
more numbers at once
yep so you can dial four to ten numbers
at a time and i showcase this so i'll
sit down and in 90 minutes i'll make 200
dials
and i can get four or five referrals one
or two or three meetings i can do the
work i would do manually in two days
working eight hours a day in 90
minutes and i do talk about that in the
book and we drill this in the series uh
go to market games from hype cycle these
are the gtm tech stack vendors because
we believe there's a new go to market
motion for business owners and startup
founders everywhere which still leverage
the advanced technology to give you back
your time just because so much of what
you think you're doing in sales and
marketing is automatable
so it sounds like the short answer to my
question is cold calling worth it but
2022 is yes
as yeah i don't i don't think the
channel is going away unless there is a
true regulation that's enforced at a
greater degree
i think i was measuring that about
43 percent of the u.s economy are you
know the gdp the gross domestic product
uh is actually from small businesses 43
percent and then there's you know 30
million small businesses 300 million
americans we can keep going with
statistics
but the calling of strangers and the
transacting ideas
it goes all the way back to the bazaar
and the market and the spice market like
how are we going to trade if we block
the mechanism now regulating and making
sure it's high quality
i get that
but this whole idea that uh anyone that
calls you who's a stranger is bad
i mean do we want to see 43 of your
economy go away that would not be good
uh i don't know if you're
anti-capitalism or the free markets i
get it but right now democracy and free
markets seem to be
one of the better systems so we're going
to need to call each other and find out
what we're doing and sell each other's
stuff to survive and thrive economically
got it and we're going to talk about
tactics shortly um
but in terms of cold calling i i imagine
we've got people from all ends of the
spectrum here perhaps there's some
listeners that already do it perhaps
there's some that have done it in the
past perhaps there's people that perhaps
do a mix of kind of outbound they do
some inbound maybe there's some demand
gen maybe they do a mix of all kinds of
outreach and inbound stuff
is there specific companies or sectors
you feel that cold calling is suited to
justin or is it something you can just
say across the board is it's gonna work
well i am sponsored by lead iq among
others and uh i was in mobile marketing
um where the most of these decision
makers are under 30 years old and they
command a budget of 2 million to 200
million doing paid ads across
facebook and google
and so the theory was hey they really
don't want to be called and i set
records in that climate using direct
cell phone data like the ones that lead
iq provides
and
humans are humans in all generations if
i interrupt someone and i have a
tailored value
it works the same whether they're
you know 20 40 60 80. it just
it's really how you approach it and the
relevance and i think what people forget
they forget about the thin slice and
malcolm gladwell and they forget about
the zmod so google has made trillions
trillions off of the zmod which is like
sam's sitting in his chair he's going to
have the coolest chair in b2b and you
know what i think i need a second one
and you go to google it's 2am and you go
boom cool chair and then bam and now you
need that chair but that heartbeat that
second is a lot like when you catch
someone you catch a stranger
there's about nine ways that are used to
open cold calls and they're all the same
and so what you have is uh every
prospect on earth who has a phone is
inoculated
it's almost like vaccinated to your
opener so there's so much focus on the
the handling of the objections and the
rebuttals and the ledging and bridging
and all this kung fu but the problem is
it's the first nanoseconds our brains
are so sophisticated that within
like a micro nanosecond i can sum up if
i trust you
through your body language through the
tonality so what i did is i invented a
phone technique that really optimizes on
the first three heartbeats and then i
changed it radically from the last 20
years and so it just cuts like a hot
knife because subliminally it's not
something prospects are used to ever
getting so it's just like the scene in
star wars where it goes
these are not the droids they're looking
for and the stormtrooper goes these are
not the droids we're looking for you
know it's like
it's there's a jedi mind trick i can
tell you how i found it looks pretty
crazy
yeah yeah i want to get into that but
before we do before we get kind of deep
dive into actionables into strategy
i want to
i guess convince any die hard demand gen
inbound marketers dark funnel preachers
the cold calling is yeah you enjoyed
that one um there's a lot of them about
i want to dive into how does cold
calling stack up against let's say cold
email against perhaps inbound marketing
where we're getting people with high
intent whether that's google ads paid
ads seo or whether we're looking at more
the dart funnel apprentice but approach
putting out organic kind of educating
content across linkedin across different
social channels yeah
how does it stack up is is one better
than the other should we be doing
everything what are your thoughts what's
worked for you and clients you've helped
well we could do an a b test right we
can take two you know vendors of
analytics and have one use no sdrs and
no outbound sell the exact same product
and the other one try to approach this
all by inbound and demand gen
the inbound demand gen stuff they get 80
through they're warmer
they close sometimes faster usually a
lower
acv or tcv outbound stuff it can be big
whale hunting it can take time
now i just recently saw chris walker
argue because they're only 10 through
and if they're 80 through it's actually
um not how it works uh the best
statistics i saw is that three percent
of a market are in a window to buy and
so all that demand gen stuff pulls the
loan hanging through to the three
percent the 40 will entertain switch
switching so they'll pull that too like
the switching but then um something like
uh well the remaining right the
remaining 57 percent is just not gonna
budge it's the status quo
so
the beauty of the top sales people that
i've ever worked with is their magicians
they create demand and there were
studies by jim holden basically the
thing that the
demand gen dark funnel dark social gurus
are missing is that extremely talented
salespeople with you know
a great degree of acumen in the craft
can create demand
so generally sales eighty percent of
sellers use techniques that service the
demand
but certain techniques about you know
five percent of sellers can trigger
demand so i create systems that just
take you you're just sitting there and
you're happy in your chair and if you
deal with me you're to want another
chair or a few chairs or a couple
offices like it's just what they can do
and so is an opener a real thing yes and
i travel with some closers this would be
this thing deal stalled it's horrible
the prospect's upset it's never going to
go anywhere they went with a competitor
i give it to a closer this guy goes in
like jean renau you know boom closes the
deal i've seen people with a gift to
take any piece of business and close it
so there's also the mythology around
well it was it's earlier in the cycle
and objections show that the sales
process was wrong
it's uh there's a lot of myths here like
selling is a thing negotiationist thing
closing is a thing outbound is a thing
and inbound and demand gen you know they
can be effective
but these things are not all mutual
exclusives that's why i'm so fanatical
about the go to market strategy because
you got to consider the holistic picture
of your sales marketing operations and
bring it together and i've been working
with my co-founder uh julian nimchinsky
on this series called gtm games the
company's called hype cycle
the hype and the cycle and what we're
really proving is that sales people are
marketers and marketers are sales people
and
we're all in rev-ops and there's the
blurring of the lines the silos are
actually artificial
just want to throw a bit more about you
um just want to throw a bit more at you
rather in terms of kind of cold the
inbound because obviously i preach a lot
about inbound marketing
running a web and seo agency myself now
sure if a
i guess if a startup's perhaps tuning in
and they're thinking well we've got two
options we can go we can go to market we
can go outbound we can hire a few sales
development reps a few lead gen reps
they can hit the phones and they can
start going to book appointments
or we can put a ton of money in ads
perhaps look at seo perhaps we could get
some sponsored acts some other bits and
pieces email webinars
what would you say is going to be most
effective for a business with limited
cash
if you're scaling it all and you have
the investment to make um you definitely
want both
right
but unless you live with your mom
which hey no shame in that right uh
wedding crash remember at the funeral
crasher remember uh will ferrell he
lived with his mom that's okay no shame
in that great film if you want to live
with your mom and have skinny kids
do pure inbound because you will go out
of business if you go dark funnel social
and try to run an smb without getting
people on the phone because the people
that start their own businesses that
entrepreneur is on the phone every
single one from the founder of value
click from brian coryak started his own
business made his own cold calls i have
met some of the billionaires in this
world who started startups and they
themselves are the sdr that's the hidden
secret do you know when um
not when we started the company but when
we built the company up i was cold
calling so i cold called a lot to
generate appointments whilst we were
getting budget to put into paid ads into
seo
and now thankfully because it saves me a
lot of sweat and tears i don't have to
cold cool very often if if any time as
i'm running the company and handling a
few inbound leads here and then project
management but yeah we did so um
yeah i'm not opposed to the argument
although everyone might think i'm
inbound 100
it didn't start that way well you
weren't called an sdr and you didn't go
out and hire an str but your go to
market motion was a sales development
rep because you don't have time now your
your inbound dark funnel stuff is going
to work it does work there's no doubt
it's going to bring people 80 percent
but that could take
60 days 90 days 120 days um so the
the interesting thing is like my
co-founder former cmo entrepreneurs so
i've gone really deep now into marketing
and really deep into sales and spend 15
years selling marketing technology
sophisticated mobile analytics and
learning to speak cmo i worked for
salesforce linkedin so
um
that's why i believe in all bound all
all the channels can work what's your
strategy what are your tactics and how
you can make it work for you so it's
like the debate is like a false
dichotomy like
you kind of you need them both right you
need a storefront you need a personal
brand you need to be out there as sam
you need your you know strong brand for
the business
you need a great self-serve strategy
when people land and then you have a
really quality outbound motion too if
you get big enough like with these
podcasts and you're not scaling fast
enough you don't need the outbound team
because if you know if you're gonna get
five to ten leads per month quality
inbound you're fine you're probably fine
if you close too fast you'll need to
hire people you don't want to scale
faster
it could break your fulfillment right
so it's it's it's interesting um yeah
you've summed that up really nicely so
yeah we've teed this up we've teed this
up well
so let's let's jump into some
actionables justin let's talk about what
makes the perfect cold call in your
opinion whether that's from kind of
opening to going for the demo request or
the appointment i guess
yeah so if you do want to get into the
uh out of the dark so social and into
maybe the darker art of outbound sails
or you know the original profession on
earth you know the world was created and
then the sails and maybe attorneys
crawled out of the ocean i'm not sure
uh whatever your creation story is but
um let's say going to make this call
here's the problem
i found a few things i can tell you i
found much time we have
but there's only so many approaches
a very thorough analysis was conducted
for a project called rev garage again by
julia nimchinsky and we found nine
things we found did i catch it at a bad
time that's an aaron ross 2011.
we found a yui now which is a basho
which is a hoffman barrows approach it
was about a little before 2010 i think
maybe late 2000s we found the natural
which is how are you we found the
sandler which is hey this is a cold call
i hated making it are you hating being
on the phone right now or humor this the
backwards counter-intuitive um can i get
26 seconds of your time which is cool
27 right eight minute abs seven minutes
something like that um another one is
like this josh braun chris voss is
becoming probably like you don't know me
uh like a negative label open
well there's three interesting things
about this okay the first is this
the last 20 years the cold call has been
this i interrupt you then i talk about
myself imagine a light in a theater and
it's like an old school play i call sam
interrupt sam and talk about me and my
company and every one of those
approaches the same way
so i thought what if i spotlight the
prospect so i flipped that
and then there's only two mediums ever
in the last 20 years
so i'm really like a deconstructor you
know like i was actually just watching
elon musk and he was building rockets
and talking about cryogenic steel and
now i feel way less like elon musk but
if you think about first principles
we've only ever wanted to do two things
on the phone for a hundred years talked
to todd capone we've tried to sell the
product to sam on the phone so i said
hey sam do you need a new crm nope
so then someone figured out let's do
time hey sam uh let's talk can we talk
about crms do you have 15 minutes or 30
minutes now i mess with that and i do 11
minutes it's hilarious the prospect says
i'll give you nine minutes i'll say okay
bring a stopwatch so what has there been
we've asked to sell our product
or to sell for time
so i figured out two things i turn the
spotlight onto the prospect and i sell
the route
i try to figure out who's in charge of
the problem
before i even ask you for your time or
what i'm going to sell you i'm just
trying to figure out sam are you the
person at your company now in a small
business it's kind of funny because if i
get sam
and he's the ceo of his company he
probably handles everything
but if i call sam like who's inside your
website you might say actually an agency
did it it was actually my cousin rick
he's awesome in i.t you don't really
know
especially when i train teams that are
in matrix organization or sell something
disruptive you don't often know who it
is
and then i figured out this jedi mind
trick is i call everybody and i just ask
them if they're in charge of the thing
they're in charge of so i would call you
up and say hey sam
uh i would say first use your name and
say like hey is this sam dunning
yeah
hey sam justin michael from acme who's
in charge of your sales development over
there
so i use this thing called route and i
just ask you well 30 of the time the
data was bad it's like oh it's not sam
it's carol
sam's not here now i'm the new gm
there's someone else on the line
another you know somewhere in the 30
percent the lead is bad the phone number
is bad i didn't get through the bad
message right
if it's not them they always say hey
call carol and then i just get
permission i do referral and then send
an email via
sam
so right from the top instead of instead
of the call opens i go hey sam who's in
charge of your sales development you're
like what is this about i'm like well
our sales development reps are the best
and we can get you so much revenue like
uh no thanks send some information and
now i'm doing rebuttals kung fu from the
top just striking and fighting i do
aikido i ask you who's in charge of the
thing the route you you give me a
referral
now if i ask you who's in charge of your
sales development say i am well this is
crazy this word i am right i think it's
like yahweh it's like the first word in
the bible is not trying to get religious
but it's a powerful word people say i am
they become powerful prospects when you
call them they're not in charge of their
taxes their spouse their kids
corona anything they're powerless but
you know they have power they can tell
you to go away or they can buy from you
so you actually make them more powerful
so i isolated
all my email techniques are based on
visual
because the brain processes visually and
then all my phone techniques are focused
on power the shifting and transferring
of power not your tone not your power
pose not your suit
you know yes so
i understand the technique does everyone
go along with it though how on a
percentage scale i guess because you're
good with stats justin is there many
that say why who's asking or i might be
or is there many that i guess play up
rather than just kind of take the bait
and say yeah i look after sales
management for our team or whatever the
question is i'm trying to use a pitch
later framework and i know josh braun uh
has embraced this as well and he's a
friend of mine and you know
uh
if they say who are you i repeat it in
i'm like hey it's just michael from acme
look i'm not trying to waste your time
i've got
i do have some sales tech but i don't
waste your time are you like the one who
heads it up i asked it again gotcha and
then they say i am and then invariably
there's multiple things because remember
57 percent of time they're like status
quo so they're either built internally
or they use another vendor
and so you just say well how do you
normally do it and they say oh well i
already use beta corp and then every
other seller on earth goes like this
well beta corp is really bad customer
service i run them all the time they're
on my biggest referral and they just
start bashing with differentiators and
now there's more kung fu and they ask
you for more information and you're gone
so what i do now is whatever they say at
that moment anything they do even bored
like do nothing
i just applaud them i'm like i agree
like if you use beta beta is great how
is it working out for you and i asked
this thing called the ruin this this
question
and what it does is it makes them open
up to you it's like it's pretty magical
sometimes you're just like you know well
i really like it and i've you know had
it for a long time it's doing that i was
like you know and start interviewing
about their current solution and this
wheel they go from positive to negative
and the reason it's called ruin is
because if you want to get someone to be
dissatisfied you just ask questions like
hey do you want a house in the south of
france you want a limited vacation time
do you want to be fitter do you want to
be a multi-millionaire and just after a
while you want a lamborghini countach i
don't know hilarious 80s car
but what i'm saying is by interviewing
agreeing with them and interviewing them
around what's working in the solution
they will often say like yeah the
pricing model's not good and then i wait
for this thing called the polarity shift
that i found where they go like who are
you what is it and they switch
and then i pitch so the pitch is the
third step the multiplier though
so i i get the part so basically we're
asking them if they if they do the role
that we know they already do because
it's in our data sheet providing it's a
contact um then
hopefully they've agreed with us but
then are they
well i didn't quite pick up justin are
they picking up on the fact that we've
already introduced our company name so
they have a rough idea of what we do
because you said then they might kind of
start querying what we can do and then
you complement their existing supplier
but that was the part i wasn't quite
clear what was the exact next step so
the full format is called route ruin
multiply if you reach out i can send you
a guide um first you're out and if they
say they're in charge of it
they'll often just say i already have
something in place but if they don't
tease that out you just how do you
normally do it and they go oh it's beta
corp
okay and that's when um
you know you're you're asking them it's
like columbo you're asking them
questions you already know the answer to
so the second step is you agree
and then you ask them kind of how is it
working
and that's when they're going to surface
up information about what they're
currently using whether they're building
it
internally buying it
they're not here's the thing they're not
ever listening to you they're totally
focused they're multitasking you nothing
you actually are depending on them being
checked out and multitasking you
you get them to start talking about
their current condition which is a very
spin selling framework
um let's say beta corp is their existing
sales development service yeah we got
reps over there they're offshore
we're so we're kind of getting the
meetings it's pretty good we're pretty
happy oh what else would you like it to
be able to do and they go well you know
it's a little expensive and we haven't
had a meeting in a month you know what i
mean so then you go you spin and now you
just go well if you could get the
meetings what would happen and if you
couldn't get the meetings what would
happen so what i'm doing is i'm bringing
the discovery process from lower in the
funnel to the top of the funnel and i'm
getting the prospect to talk 80 of the
time and i'm just listening and querying
them about their current status quo or
what they use it's totally revolutionary
basically i all i'm trying to do is the
bouncing ball i'm trying to keep the
spotlight off myself yeah so gong has
listened to millions of calls but not
mine and things to listen to talk ratio
is 40 50. if you use my techniques you
will talk five percent of time the calls
will go over ten minutes
and um they will ask you for the meeting
the polarity will shift and say wait who
are you wait can you help me with this
can i send you my calendly can i bring
my friends
i found i can tell you how i found all
this stuff because it's all a bit welsh
right now obviously on the call
but essentially
prospects are emotional
an entire call is set up this way i
interrupt you
spotlight myself tell you the reason
logically while you should listen to me
about something that you can't change
how is that going to work out well all
that can cause
is a negative reaction on the prospect a
recoil and more loyalty and affinity for
whatever they're doing which is do
nothing or another supplier
it doesn't work
if i call you flip it listen to you
agree with you about your choice i
disarm you create affinity open you up
and you want a partner with me
it's a reverse at the whole reverse
technique
if you're talking we're building trust
because challenger sales came out and
it's like well i gotta interrupt you and
then challenge you but you're emotional
and so it goes back to that google
search
the minute you go wait what do you do
then it's the polarity flips i see these
big sales cycles over three years right
and what happened is i would push the
meeting do the demo get the technical
people together the msa we get it all
the way down we close it and it would
blow up in there because never did they
turn and say i gotta do this deal hey
justin let's get these paperwork this
paperwork
right there's this flip in big deals
there's actually a flip and this is why
show rates are so bad on the meetings
because they now lie to the sdrs and say
i'll show up at tuesday at 11 just to
get you off the phone
yeah
so i'm interested in this flipping point
justin so is it just a case if we ask
enough questions keep them in
conversation long enough and then
eventually they just say look who are
you what is it that you can what is it
you can do for me
at some stage i get that because you're
going to build up enough curiosity
they're going to keep talking they're
going to eventually want to know who the
hell you are and what you offer um
what happens next though do we blur into
saying our product does xyz we can help
you 10x this 100x this book a meeting or
is there another approach
i know this is alien but sometimes
they're sitting on the call
tell me their life story their health
history about their kids their trip
whatever and so like if a sales manager
is hearing it they're like you're not
controlling the call
but i'm talking to a chief revenue
officer so you're a chief revenue
officer we can spend 20 minutes you can
say anything you want i'm going to
listen because if i get 20 minutes with
the chief revenue officer and an icp
persona company that i need i'm going to
win i guarantee you no chief revenue
officer in the world is going to spend
20 minutes with a vendor talking for 20
minutes and then not help you and so i
get all these weird reactions where
they're like whoa justin you're not like
a seller you remind me of a friend you
know honestly i was just going to tell
you to pound sand and we actually have
the exact solution but i like you so
i'll set up the meeting anyway i've had
i've had like these
right because once people know and like
you when you listen to someone it's a
gift and they want to reciprocate
that's why voicemails work like we
talked about in the very beginning is if
i leave a voicemail but someone else
sends 15 cadence personalized message to
you they'll say ah well he least lifted
the phone he tried
so at this point the polarity will shift
and they'll become interested the zero
moment of truth where they go wait what
are you is there a value
and they'll ask you and that's where
it's you just
the beauty is the whole front of the
call they gave you their pain points
late in pain use cases so instead of you
spending hours on the pre-call research
they've served you the pain in the front
and now you just align the solution now
rookie sellers hear any pain and they
spoon feed mary poppins
good sellers you hear a pain you peel
the pain right and that's pain funnel
sandler and that's challenger sales
and that's
uh spin and and miller high minute they
all go into that you can't you can't
have someone say the customer service
pad you're like our customer service is
great
it's slow ours is fast like you got to
not do that you got to find out if you
speed it up how do you make more money
or if you don't what breaks right the
whole root cause analysis problems of
symptoms appealing so what i'm actually
doing is i'm taking a lot of closing
tactics and things that strategic
sellers have used for 20 30 years and
i'm teaching them to new reps to think
strategically
because nobody ever wanted an iphone in
fact steve baumer running microsoft
laughed at steve jobs and said no
buttons we have no interest in that and
then there was a line like star wars
so
latent pain is the pain the insidious
pains that they can't see the iceberg
you've all seen this picture where it's
like what the executives know five
percent and then what's going wrong in
the corporation
um it's it's so weird that you could
call the owner of a business or a
prospect and they don't know what's
wrong they understand symptoms but you
have to like a therapist lead them
through the peel like a doctor
doc my knee hurts and he just walks in
he says you know we're gonna operate
let's amputate
the doctor says when did it start a week
ago oh i tripped on a roller skate i hit
my knee against the fridge okay here's
some go get some advil
you know like
that's the issue i got it give us an
example justin so we've um we've
probably all been well for this cool
we've had a a good conversation they've
given us a lot of intel if they've
perhaps got some pain points we've dug
deep into them understand the root cause
and it's potentially something we might
be able to help them with our product or
our offering
they've then said look justin you've
took up 20 minutes of my time what the
hell can you do and what can you do for
me give us an example of perhaps how
you've taken and use a previous prospect
if you wish of how you've served up that
problem or that pain points that you've
just analyzed into a nice little
cocktail where you've then got the
meeting
yep so at the very end it's route room
and multiply and so the most critical
thing you can do here is just say
you know what sam keep everything you've
got don't rip out acme what we should do
is we plug us in alongside and we're
going to multiply the effectiveness of
acme
and this is a land expand because a lot
of a lot of the people i train are in
tech stack land where there's 91
solutions in the stack
but i mean my mom's 70 and she has a
stack everyone has a stack so if you can
augment
the minute you're trying to rip it out
now i have rout ruin rip which is you're
just pitching later now you just pitch
but the real trojan horse is to say keep
it all plug us in alongside multiply the
effectiveness of what you're doing let's
work on it for a quarter let's look at
it
and then just get in trojan horse
multiplier okay
don't change what you're doing
you know you've got the sequencer you've
got the data you've got that just why
don't you bring us in on the intent
later layer we improve the targeting
we're going to make your whole stack
work better it's a turbocharger right
that's been
in martech and ad tech and high-tech
verticals there's often like a
multi-prong point solution you know
that's how i would sell it because
there's no friction it means they don't
have to rip out a sas contract an msa
it doesn't matter if they're in a
two-year three-year cycle i'm making
them i'm reducing the friction like i'm
listening to you you're in control don't
change anything
just add this small monthly fee in for
sas right that's how i would do it
so let's say for example say because
we've been talking about software as a
service sas product so if we've been if
we're a crm provider
um and we've had a good chat with the
prospect we've gone through perhaps
understood a bit more about their
current state what they're working with
now perhaps some flaws platform problems
some issues they've been dealing with
maybe their crm takes 20 minutes to
update it doesn't link into gmail
perhaps their reps take hours a week for
strangely updating the records you know
the common common crm problems that the
sales reps might go into um do we just
say look i'm glad you're with hubspot
but i want to feed on those zohos here
and whatever the heck you're on there i
want to put this alongside and see how
you get on to see if it helps improve
xyz we just discussed is that what you
do or yeah i mean how are you going to
get a rip out if it's a two three year
contract you don't know if they're month
to month but why don't you put them into
the tool is it a risk to do a pilot to
have a sandbox a trial to get them in
there
using the tool
now if you're doing managed services in
it and you really need to rip it out you
might say when's your contract up six
months mark it and come back to them and
then it's different you're doing
quarterly cycles and you're trying to
find buying windows to even sell into
but nine times out of ten those
contracts are easier to break than you
think a lot of times they are on month
to month and they've been in a long
contract they're just being cagey and
trying to keep that information from you
so the best thing you can do is get
people it's used in the you know vehicle
industry they sit you down to test drive
cars even now
why because once you're in it the look
the feel how it works you know it's one
thing to tell you the crm is so much
better but just put them into a crm that
works well i mean remember the
difference between like microsoft
outlook and the original gmail and g
suite and just how fast and easy it was
to use i was gonna say you don't have to
preach g suite to me i love it
everyone's always like well we're just
using g suite to run the business and
like well that cost a couple hundred
million to build it seems easy but
there's a lot going on in there um all
the asynchronous updating and editing
and
um that's the thing you know it's that's
why i'm so big into visuals
uh you know and some of the product led
growth stuff because
you can only do so much with words
you know you people have to like
experience those moments and yeah
that's why stories work on the phone
yeah and how you pitch at the end could
be a use case um
mike bosworth he calls it uh
uh pure curiosity to pure envy i'll
credit him there right if i know that a
similar type of prospect is successful
with our service or solution and i can
tell you the story about them
that's powerful
the use case or testimonial and
presenting that as part of the pitch not
just feature function benefits speeds
and feeds
the other thing for me is there's like
four types of sales there's like feature
function benefits and then there's like
the competitors which is phase two and
phase three is political i'm always
thinking if someone buys this
how does it advance them in their career
what are the optics who's looking at
them you know but i know we're talking
to small businesses now it's a little
different i deal with like a lot of
enterprises and highly matrixed
organizations we have 25 vps they don't
even know how they buy different
strategy
same motion though same kind of opening
call yeah got it so
just to i guess wrap the call up
if we're if we're saying look
we think that we can kind of plug in
problem x y z we've just discovered
during during our call i'm not saying
replace what you've got right now i'm
saying plug us in alongside see what the
results go like for the next three six
months if they're better than what we've
got now great we look at long term if
not no no harm done
do we leave it at that and they say
great can we and the prospect actually
asks for the meeting do we do something
like you mentioned josh braun and chris
voss earlier do we say with all that
said would you be opposed to learning
more on a demo with us or what kind of
strategy do you do you take would you
just leave it after the yeah the double
negatives are really interesting uh
verbal jiu-jitsu right because you're
using this you're asking a negative
you're asking a question that gets a no
would you be a pose no versus do you
want to take a meeting with us yes
because it's less committal to say no
than yes but basically by the time i've
gone through this process with prospects
they typically ask me for a meeting and
they ask if it's okay to bring people
but that doesn't happen i'll just you
know
see if they have some time
um i'm a huge proponent in this thing
called the principle of disinterest
humans are like magnets if i show a time
interest in you i repel you if i don't
know you that's strange
right it's uh
you have to be cool calm and collected
so calls to action can't be can i have
15 minutes or 30 minutes
um do you want to talk this over it's
like you know when are you around or
what's
you know what i always tell executives
when i book meetings like what is the
slowest time of your week next week like
where you just have 10 minutes but
you're not busy it's like an afternoon
and they're like ah fridays
thursdays you know usually around four
o'clock i have nothing going on i'm like
great like i'll get you at 3 50 and then
i'll book them for 10 minutes at the top
of the hour with like total deference to
the schedule because i don't need 30 i
don't need an hour i just need to get on
the phone and get a small meeting
just get a beach head
i i can't stand that you get a demo
request they put 30 on your calendar
they ask you for more time now we're 45
minutes in now or an hour now it's like
i just went through a surgery you know
bad demoing
and that's a that's a topic for another
podcast um okay let's let's wrap this up
justin you're giving us a nice nice
framework to for people that perhaps
want to up their cold calling game or
perhaps they haven't done any outbound
yet that they can steal and put into
play are there any other kind of i guess
spot checks any other considerations
that we need to think about before we
get stuck in get some data verify it and
hit the phones either ourself or with
our our outbound sales team well all i'd
say is i was quite actually inspired
when i created this method with
something called vampire rule
which is i don't know if you grew up in
the 80s or saw a lot of good vampire
movies there's this weird thing like
they're immortal and they live off you
know sucking human blood and so forth
and but they can be killed with a uh
right what is it like silver oh and then
they they repel them with garlic and
like
i watched buffy the vampires there and i
think they just staked them but um okay
yeah so
what it was it was a wooden stake or
what but that's like a that's like a
really ferocious fearful creature right
that's blood curly that's scary that's
terrifying except if they're outside
your door they can't come in
unless you invite them over the
threshold it's like this unwritten law
and i know it's a hilarious thing to
compare the sales people to that but
what i really believe in is opt-in so
although i'm aggressive in doing the res
the reach outs and doing a lot of
outbound the techniques i use a lot of
tap outs a lot of opt-out factors
because i'm really waiting for them to
reach because magnetically i can't push
on them i can't just keep pushing at you
until i corner you into a tuesday it
doesn't work like at some point
when my friend gary mcdonald says we
have to create desire
there must be desire in them right they
need to invite us over the threshold and
that's what that polarity shift is i'm
just waiting until you literally say
wait what was your name who's the
company
because
you're too busy there's no way that
c-level hears you know web choice
uk and then like six minutes later even
remembers your name there's no way
they're sitting there clearing stuff on
their screen
and that's okay i give them permission
to forget about me because they're
they're thinking about their problems
and i'm interrupting them you know
i get it nice nice way to wrap it up
with the with the vampire knowledge i
like it cool justin always a pleasure
never a chore my friend
and with with that please do tell us
more about how people can learn from you
how they can connect with you and a bit
more about hype cycle
cool please come to uh gtm games it's uh
like a couple weeks every month we're on
the fifth in the series if you just go
type in gtm games
or hype cycle if you can spell that you
can also just
find myself justin or julia um on
linkedin
and you can attend this thing if you
want to participate if you're a seller
and you want to do marketing drills or
marketing one of these sales drills if
you want a sponsor it's a bit of a
barkley marathon for go to market
strategy and it's uh probably the most
unique series
uh one of the most unique ever created
so come check it out and uh yeah
pleasure to be on the show
no worries dude thanks very much justin
we'll put all of those links over on the
show notes at businessgrowth.marketing
with that thank you again sir and as
always we interview business dealers
each and every week to provide
actionable tips across marketing sales
and growing a business and with that
we'll catch you on the next one